So up to this point, we've looked at
kind of direct interactivity where
somebody runs a command and then we don't
have to worry about what their input was,
we can just send something back.
To make this truly useful,
we wanna make it a two way conversation.
We want someone to be able
to send some data to us and
then respond based on that data.
So, we will be using something
called the Block Kit Builder
which I can quickly show here.
And the way that this works is
Slack has this very thorough custom
implementation of all sorts of
things that you can do in Slack.
So if you wanna add text fields,
if you wanna add static_select,
if you wanna add buttons,
you wanna add images, all of these things
are possible to do inside of Slack
if you use their JSON Schema.
And as you can see,
this JSON Schema is thorough.
It has a lot of pieces.
It's pretty verbose,
which is a good thing because it means
that it's very descriptive and
you can parse it and
I like that about it, but
it can be a little bit of a pain to write.
So we're gona create a helper that lets
us generate these blocks through a little
utility function, just to keep
our code a little more compact.
Cuz otherwise, what ends up happening is,
your function ends up just being this
giant block of JSON that you either
have to collapse or move around.
So I like being a little
more terse with the utility.
You can make a choice,
you don't necessarily need to do this.
I prefer it, and so
that's why I keep doing it.
And what I wanna do is go back
into our slack util here, And
down below our verification,
I'm going to add a new export.
This is gonna be called blocks.
And it's gonna be an object that is full
of the blocks that we want to create.
So we're using a subset here,
you won't need to use all of these.
So I'm gonna create one for sections.
I'm gonna create one for an input.
And I believe we need a select And
that's all we're gonna use today.
Like I said, there are a lot of blocks.
So as you kind of build out your own chat
ops, you might need to expand this to
accommodate more things, but
this is what we're doing for the demo.
So we'll keep it nice and
tight as much as we can.
So that's gonna accept text and we're
gonna call this a SectionBlockArgs so
that we get some autocomplete there and
that is going to return
a SlackblockSection. And
it says, yeah, because we're not returning
anything yet, it says that it's invalid.
So we need to actually return and we can
say it's gonna be a type of section.
And we're gonna have text of type,
we'll use Markdown.
Now, Slack their markdown isn't Markdown,
it's a specific dialect
that they've created to give
Markdown-like capabilities,
which I think is why they
spell this differently.
I'm not sure, but for whatever reason,
they don't like vowels.
And then we pass in this text.
And now that we've satisfied
the conditions of a SlackBlockSection,
we don't have that red squiggly anymore,
and that will give us a valid Slack block.
Next, we're gonna do the same thing,
but for the input and the select,
these are both a little more in depth.
So for our input, we're gonna have an id,
we're gonna have a label.
In fact, we can autocomplete some of this,
we just go straight to our
Input(BlockArgs) here.
And give us our label, a placeholder,
will need the initial value,
which I'm gonna set to be blank, and the
hint, which we can also set to be blank.
We'll look at what both of these
are as we start actually using them.
And that is going to
return a SlackBlockInput.
And to make that valid we're
gonna return an object,
it has a block_id which will be the id,
and _block.
It's gonna have a type
which will be input.
It's going to have a label
which will include a type.
In our case,
we're gonna use plain_text and
the text will be the label itself
that we passed in as an argument.
Then we've got the element.
The element is the actual input part.
So we're gonna give it an action_id,
that's the ID.
We're going to give it a type,
and that is a plain_text_input.
Boy, plain_text_input.
And then we're going to
give it a placeholder.
And so a placeholder is like what will be
visible inside the input when nothing's
been added to it.
So that is an object and
it has a type of plain_text.
This is a very common pattern in
Slack blocks is this type in text.
The text itself will be our placeholder.
Then we've got an initial value
which follows just the initial value
being a string.
And then outside of the element
we can set a hint if we want.
The hint is text shown
underneath the input, so
we can give people a clue that doesn't
disappear when they start typing.
And the text itself will be our hint.
So, saving that,
then we can move into our select.
And our select is going
to be SelectBlockArgs,
and that is going to
return a SlackBlockInput.
Because the select and
an input are effectively the same thing,
they just have a couple
extra fields in a select.
So this one is going to take an ID,
a label,
a placeholder, and options.
The options being what you can
select from the drop down.
And this will return a block _id.
And that's going to,
again, be the id_block.
I'll show you why I use this
naming convention when we get
into accessing the values.
But the the short answer is,
we're going to have to drill down
through a giant object in the values.
So having predictable things
like the id_block and
then the id as opposed to what gets
auto generated by Slack, is gonna make
it possible to work with these values and
a little easier for us to think about.
We're gonna set a type of input.
We will use a label.
That label is going to be exactly the same
as this one, so I'm gonna copy paste it.
And then we want an element.
That element is going to
have an action_id of id.
The type is going to be
a static_select this time.
And for the placeholder,
now this is inside the element.
So the placeholder goes here,
that's going to have a type of
plain_text and a text of placeholder.
If you wanna use emojis and stuff you
can also set emoji to true in these, but
we're not using them so you can
leave it or not doesn't really matter.
For options, we are going to map
over the options that were given.
And we are going to know
that these have a label and
a value, because that is what
we've defined them to have.
And for each one, we're gonna return text,
and it has a type of plain_text.
It has the text value itself of label.
And we can set emoji to true if we want
And then the last thing
we want is the value.
So this is how we actually get
options into it, so we can save that.
And now we have these little
helpers that we'll be able to use
to make our lives easier as
we're building out our modal.
Because what we wanna do next is
actually create from the slash command.
We wanna pop up a modal window that
asks a couple questions that we need in
order to respond to the request.
And we keep it simple, when I was
building this for a previous team,
we had three questions.
It was, what do you need?
When do you need it by?
Because if it doesn't have a deadline,
is it actually important, right?
And how urgent is this?
What's the risk if we don't get this done?
It's nice to have, it's a must have it's a
critical blocker, making sure that we have
an understanding of what the level
of urgency is for the thing.
And then an optional input for,
are there any other details that
we need, links to stuff etc.
And by keeping it small,
because the urge is always gather all
of the information but what I found is,
if you give people one or
two fields to fill out, they'll do it.
If you give them ten fields, they won't,
or they'll start kind of short-cutting
those fields and
then they become less information.
So you want the absolute minimum number
of inputs that you can to actually do
your job.
Anything else can be in
an additional context box so
that people can help out there.